.TH GET-SSM-PARAMS 1 "2025-08-10" "0.1.0-SNAPSHOT" "get-ssm-params Manual"
.SH NAME
get-ssm-params \- gets parameters from AWS SSM parameter store and outputs them to the local environment.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B get-ssm-params
[\fB\-hV\fR]
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-path\fR=\fI<path>\fR
[\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fI<output>\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-region\fR=\fI<region>\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-template\fR=\fI<templatePath>\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B get-ssm-params
utility fetches parameters recursively from the AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Parameter Store for a given path. It automatically decrypts any secure string parameters. The leading path is stripped from the parameter names in the output.
.P
The output can be formatted as shell exports, plain text, JSON, or via a user-supplied template.
.P
Region and other SSM client configuration can be set via environment variables. See the Quarkus Amazon SSM documentation for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR"
Show help message and exit.
.IP "\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR"
Print version information and exit.
.IP "\fB-p\fR, \fB--path\fR=\fI<path>\fR"
.B Required.
The path in the SSM parameter store to query.
.IP "\fB-o\fR, \fB--output\fR=\fI<output>\fR"
Specifies the output format. If not specified, the default is \fBSHELL\fR.
The available formats are:
.RS
.IP "\fBSHELL\fR"
Outputs each parameter as an `export KEY=VALUE` statement.
.IP "\fBJSON\fR"
Outputs all parameters as a single JSON object.
.IP "\fBTEXT\fR"
Outputs each parameter as a `KEY=VALUE` line.
.IP "\fBTEMPLATE\fR"
Formats the output using the template file specified by the \fB--template\fR option.
.RE
.IP "\fB-r\fR, \fB--region\fR=\fI<region>\fR"
The AWS region to use. This can also be set via standard AWS environment variables.
.IP "\fB-t\fR, \fB--template\fR=\fI<templatePath>\fR"
The path to the template file to use when \fB--output\fR is \fBTEMPLATE\fR. This option is required in that case.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP "\fB0\fR"
Successful execution.
.IP "\fB1\fR"
An error occurred during execution, such as a missing required option for \fBTEMPLATE\fR output or a template file that does not exist.
.IP "\fB2\fR"
An invalid option or value was provided, such as an unknown output format.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The tool respects standard AWS environment variables for configuration, such as
\fBAWS_REGION\fR,
\fBAWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID\fR,
and
\fBAWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY\fR,
as it uses the default AWS SDK client.
